with our senior political analyst Maran
bishara he joins us live from London
Maran let's talk first then about the
family of our colleague wild D who was
killed in that Israeli air strike I mean
he moved his family to the South which
according to the Israelis was supposedly
safer from danger they still got bombed
they still died it reminds us Mar when
there's no safe place in
Gaza absolutely not South not North not
East and not
West it's a it's a it's amazing that in
today's world
a church is not safe a Mosk is not safe
a hospital multiple hospitals are not
safe they are bombed
constantly residential buildings are not
safe 2 million people in constant fear 2
million people under bombardment
thousands have died tens of thousands of
casualties more than a million made
refugees yet
again it's a it's it's such a tragedy
but it's not uh divinely ordained this
is a tragedy that's man-made there's an
Israeli occupier there's an Israeli
criminal Behind These killings there are
there are war crimes they are not
coincidence and uh speaking of families
it is our
family his family and he's been part of
every family or every other family in
the Arab world he's been a welcomed
guest while is a welcomed guest like
sharen was in every other Arab household
he's become part of their families so
now we are all of us countless families
grieving for the death of his loved ones
yeah Maran and I guess it um it
underlines the danger that all
journalists and their families in Gaza
face day after day to tell the story of
what's really happening in Gaza under
this Relentless Israeli
bombardment
absolutely in fact uh there's a little
documentary that Al jaaz produced about
our correspondents in Gaza of course W
unlike Tam unlike many others who left
to do more journalism elsewhere W is a
Cornerstone in Gaza and this documentary
tells the story of w and Tam and others
and how they've covered the 20 4 War and
the wars after that and how these young
men with their families young families
have been able to survive Despite All
Odds but now we see so many journalists
are hurt so many journalist families are
hurt and now our own W's families hurt
so so marn let's broaden this out and
just talk about some of the
international response um to the crisis
I mean we had those competing us and
Russ Russian resolutions early at the UN
Security Council both failed it's clear
that deep divisions remain particularly
between the US and Russia it seems we're
back to the Cold War Days Mar one of
both sides being diametrically opposed
to each
other absolutely crippling the United
Nations security Council crippling any
possibility of anything useful coming
out of the United Nations especially in
the face of such tragedy that's
unraveling uh the occupied uh
Palestinian
territories and it is uh it is it is
shameful and they are Shameless in the
way they are handling this the cynicism
is beyond anything we've seen and it's
all in plain sight it's all for us to
see both the
tragedy both the debates at the United
Nations the incapacity of these
presumably grown-ups to be able to
handle such simple things as reach a
compromise continue with Geo your
geopolitical rivalries but come to a
consensus about something that is so
urgent the killing the genocide of
Palestinians the way it's unraveling and
the way it could widen okay to include
engulf more innocent lives in Palestine
and Beyond Mar let me get a final
thought from you before you go I mean
you were talking to us earlier about how
the Russian position has changed towards
Israel and it now seems to be
highlighting the humanitarian tragedy
for Palestinians in Gaza under the
Israeli bombardment what's caused the
Russian position to to to to change with
regards to
Israel no that's that's a very important
geopolitical question and let me
summarize it as as follows first of all
it is the framing uh by President Biden
of the conflict in the world as being
that on the one hand uh Ukraine and
Israel on the other hand Russia and
Hamas or Palestine which is completely
false of course there's nothing in
common between Hamas and Russia and
there's absolutely nothing in common
between Ukraine and Israel Ukraine being
occupied and Israel being an occupier
the only thing in common between them
are they are allies or rather clients of
the United States and hence Russia has
uh Fallen back on its old positions of
the times of the Cold War taking the
position that isra should end uh the the
criminality that it's doing but you you
add to that the very important Dimension
let's all remember that Russia remains
deployed in Syria and now the United
States is deploying its uh aircraft
cares to the east Mediterranean okay in
a in an
abrasive uh show of force a gun boo
diplomacy that certainly not to the
liking of other uh superpowers so all of
that is polarizing galvanizing and
clearly crippling any serious response
on the part of the International
Community all right Maran basawa our
senior political analyst there in London
Maran thank you